Add content to kotlin documentation 'toDateTimePeriod'. (#3915)
Codecademy/docs: content/kotlin/concepts/datetime/terms/toDateTimePeriod/toDateTimePeriod.md

---
Title: '.toDateTimePeriod()'
Description: 'Interprets an ISO-8601 formatted duration string, converting it into a DateTimePeriod object.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Data Structures'
  - 'Date'
  - 'Time'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.toDateTimePeriod()`** method in Kotlin is a versatile function that transforms a Duration object into a DateTimePeriod representation. This conversion is useful when dealing with durations in Kotlin's date and time API, especially when the durations need to be expressed in terms of years, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds, and nanoseconds. The method normalizes the duration into a human-readable format for easier interpretation and manipulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.toDateTimePeriod()`** method in Kotlin is a versatile function that transforms a Duration object into a [DateTimePeriod](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-datetime/kotlinx-datetime/kotlinx.datetime/-date-time-period/#:~:text=The%20date%20components%20are%3A%20years,periodUntil).) representation. This conversion is particularly useful when working with durations in Kotlin's date and time API, especially when expressing durations in terms of years, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds, and nanoseconds. The method normalizes the duration into a human-readable format for easier interpretation and manipulation.
```

> The **`.toDateTimePeriod()`** method in Kotlin is a versatile function that transforms a Duration object into a [DateTimePeriod](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-datetime/kotlinx-datetime/kotlinx.datetime/-date-time-period/#:~:text=The%20date%20components%20are%3A%20years,periodUntil).) representation. This conversion is particularly useful when working with durations in Kotlin's date and time API, especially when expressing durations in terms of years, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds, and nanoseconds. The method normalizes the duration into a human-readable format for easier interpretation and manipulation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`.toDateTimePeriod()`** method in Kotlin is a versatile function that transforms a Duration object into a [DateTimePeriod](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx-datetime/kotlinx-datetime/kotlinx.datetime/-date-time-period/#:~:text=The%20date%20components%20are%3A%20years,periodUntil).) representation. This conversion is helpful when working with durations in Kotlin's date and time API, especially when expressing durations in terms of years, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds, and nanoseconds. The method normalizes the duration into a human-readable format for more effortless interpretation and manipulation.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
duration.toDateTimePeriod(): DateTimePeriod
```

> - **duration:** This is a Duration object representing a length of time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `duration`: This is a Duration object representing a length of time.
```

> > **Note:** The method returns a DateTimePeriod object, which is a normalized representation of the input duration in terms of larger time units (years, months, days, etc.).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The method returns a DateTimePeriod object, a normalized representation of the input duration in terms of larger time units (years, months, days, etc.).
```

## Example

```kotlin
import kotlin.time.Duration
import kotlinx.datetime.DateTimePeriod

fun main() {
    // Durations for different activities in hours
    val designingDuration = Duration.hours(31)  
    val codingDuration = Duration.hours(57) 
    val testingDuration = Duration.hours(14)    

    // Summing up all durations
    val totalDuration = designingDuration + codingDuration + testingDuration

    // Optionally, adding some extra time for breaks 
    val totalWithDurationBreaks = totalDuration + Duration.hours(12)

    // Converting the total duration with breaks to a DateTimePeriod
    val dateTimePeriod = totalWithDurationBreaks.toDateTimePeriod()

    println("Total Duration in DateTimePeriod: $dateTimePeriod")
}
```

The expected output should be similar to the following:

```shell

> Total Duration in DateTimePeriod: DateTimePeriod(days = 4, hours = 18)

Reviewer 2: Can you confirm that this is the exact output you get on running the code example? I tried running it and got this:
`Total Duration in DateTimePeriod: P0Y0M1DT16H`

---
Title: '.toDateTimePeriod()'
Description: 'Interprets an ISO-8601 formatted duration string, converting it into a DateTimePeriod object. In cases where the string's time components are either missing or amount to zero, the function yields a DatePeriod instead.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Software Engineering'

>   - 'Other comparable degrees'

Reviewer: Add the subjects here which are only present [here](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md)

Author: Thank you for this! I thought it was somewhere, did not know where to find it.

Reviewer: It's okay @DylantheChicken ✅

---
Title: '.toDateTimePeriod()'

> Description: 'Interprets an ISO-8601 formatted duration string, converting it into a DateTimePeriod object. In cases where the string's time components are either missing or amount to zero, the function yields a DatePeriod instead.'

Reviewer: Make this short and descriptive. This long explanation is supposed to be done after the meta data not here.

Author: Noted with thanks!

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Software Engineering'
  - 'Other comparable degrees'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Data Structures'
  - 'DatePeriod'
  - 'Years'
  - 'Months'
  - 'Days'
  - 'Hours'
  - 'Minutes'
  - 'Seconds'
  - 'Nanoseconds'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> ## Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
No need for this heading

> The **.toDateTimePeriod()** method in Kotlin is a versatile function that transforms a Duration object into a DateTimePeriod representation. This conversion is useful when dealing with durations in Kotlin's date and time API, especially when the durations need to be expressed in terms of years, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds, and nanoseconds. The method normalizes the duration into a human-readable format for easier interpretation and manipulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.toDateTimePeriod()`** method in Kotlin is a versatile function that transforms a Duration object into a DateTimePeriod representation. This conversion is useful when dealing with durations in Kotlin's date and time API, especially when the durations need to be expressed in terms of years, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds, and nanoseconds. The method normalizes the duration into a human-readable format for easier interpretation and manipulation.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
duration.toDateTimePeriod(): DateTimePeriod
```

> + **duration**: This is a Duration object representing a length of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **duration:** This is a Duration object representing a length of time.
```

> The method returns a DateTimePeriod object, which is a normalized representation of the input duration in terms of larger time units (years, months, days, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The method returns a DateTimePeriod object, which is a normalized representation of the input duration in terms of larger time units (years, months, days, etc.).
```

## Example

```kotlin
import kotlin.time.Duration
import kotlinx.datetime.DateTimePeriod

> fun main() {
>     // Durations for different activities in hours
>     val designingDuration = Duration.hours(31)  // 31 hours spent on designing
>     val codingDuration = Duration.hours(57)     // 57 hours spent on coding
>     val testingDuration = Duration.hours(14)    // 14 hours spent on testing
> 
>     // Summing up all durations
>     val totalDuration = designingDuration + codingDuration + testingDuration
> 
>     // Optionally, adding some extra time for breaks (let's say 12 hours)
>     val totalWithDurationBreaks = totalDuration + Duration.hours(12)
> 
>     // Converting the total duration with breaks to a DateTimePeriod
>     val dateTimePeriod = totalWithDurationBreaks.toDateTimePeriod()
> 
>     println("Total Duration in DateTimePeriod: $dateTimePeriod")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fun main() {
    // Durations for different activities in hours
    val designingDuration = Duration.hours(31)  
    val codingDuration = Duration.hours(57) 
    val testingDuration = Duration.hours(14)    

    // Summing up all durations
    val totalDuration = designingDuration + codingDuration + testingDuration

    // Optionally, adding some extra time for breaks 
    val totalWithDurationBreaks = totalDuration + Duration.hours(12)

    // Converting the total duration with breaks to a DateTimePeriod
    val dateTimePeriod = totalWithDurationBreaks.toDateTimePeriod()

    println("Total Duration in DateTimePeriod: $dateTimePeriod")
```
Remove the redundant comments

}
```

> The expected output should be similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The expected output should be similar to the following:

```
Add white spaces

---
Title: '.toDateTimePeriod()'
Description: 'Interprets an ISO-8601 formatted duration string, converting it into a DateTimePeriod object. In cases where the string's time components are either missing or amount to zero, the function yields a DatePeriod instead.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Software Engineering'
  - 'Other comparable degrees'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Data Structures'

>   - 'DatePeriod'

Reviewer: This is not present [here](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). Either add `DatePeriod` in `tags.md` file or use the tag `Date` instead.

>   - 'Years'
>   - 'Months'
>   - 'Days'
>   - 'Hours'
>   - 'Minutes'
>   - 'Seconds'
>   - 'Nanoseconds'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
No need for these tags

```pseudo
duration.toDateTimePeriod(): DateTimePeriod
```

- **duration:** This is a Duration object representing a length of time.

> **Note:** The method returns a DateTimePeriod object, which is a normalized representation of the input duration in terms of larger time units (years, months, days, etc.).

## Example

```kotlin
import kotlin.time.Duration
import kotlinx.datetime.DateTimePeriod

fun main() {
    // Durations for different activities in hours
    val designingDuration = Duration.hours(31)  
    val codingDuration = Duration.hours(57) 
    val testingDuration = Duration.hours(14)    

    // Summing up all durations
    val totalDuration = designingDuration + codingDuration + testingDuration

    // Optionally, adding some extra time for breaks 
    val totalWithDurationBreaks = totalDuration + Duration.hours(12)

    // Converting the total duration with breaks to a DateTimePeriod
    val dateTimePeriod = totalWithDurationBreaks.toDateTimePeriod()

    println("Total Duration in DateTimePeriod: $dateTimePeriod")
}
```

The expected output should be similar to the following:

```mathematica
Total Duration in DateTimePeriod: DateTimePeriod(days = 5, hours = 4)
```

> ## Exception Throws
> **IllegalArgumentException** - if the total number of months in hours, minutes, seconds and nanoseconds overflows a Long.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note:** `Exception Throws (IllegalArgumentException)-` if the total number of months in hours, minutes, seconds, and nanoseconds overflows a Long.
```
Let's remove this heading and add a note here.
